IDENTIFY_RELEVANT
Query: Artificial Intelligence Medicine

PMID: 30617339
Abstract: The use of artificial intelligence, and the deep-learning subtype in particular, has been enabled by the use of labeled big data, along with markedly enhanced computing power and cloud storage, across all sectors. In medicine, this is beginning to have an impact at three levels: for clinicians, predominantly via rapid, accurate image interpretation; for health systems, by improving workflow and the potential for reducing medical errors; and for patients, by enabling them to process their own data to promote health. The current limitations, including bias, privacy and security, and lack of transparency, along with the future directions of these applications will be discussed in this article. Over time, marked improvements in accuracy, productivity, and workflow will likely be actualized, but whether that will be used to improve the patient-doctor relationship or facilitate its erosion remains to be seen.

PMID: 33811123
Abstract: Artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly reshaping cancer research and personalized clinical care. Availability of high-dimensionality datasets coupled with advances in high-performance computing, as well as innovative deep learning architectures, has led to an explosion of AI use in various aspects of oncology research. These applications range from detection and classification of cancer, to molecular characterization of tumors and their microenvironment, to drug discovery and repurposing, to predicting treatment outcomes for patients. As these advances start penetrating the clinic, we foresee a shifting paradigm in cancer care becoming strongly driven by AI. SIGNIFICANCE: AI has the potential to dramatically affect nearly all aspects of oncology-from enhancing diagnosis to personalizing treatment and discovering novel anticancer drugs. Here, we review the recent enormous progress in the application of AI to oncology, highlight limitations and pitfalls, and chart a path for adoption of AI in the cancer clinic.

PMID: 28126242
Abstract: Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a general term that implies the use of a computer to model intelligent behavior with minimal human intervention. AI is generally accepted as having started with the invention of robots. The term derives from the Czech word robota, meaning biosynthetic machines used as forced labor. In this field, Leonardo Da Vinci's lasting heritage is today's burgeoning use of robotic-assisted surgery, named after him, for complex urologic and gynecologic procedures. Da Vinci's sketchbooks of robots helped set the stage for this innovation. AI, described as the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, was officially born in 1956. The term is applicable to a broad range of items in medicine such as robotics, medical diagnosis, medical statistics, and human biology-up to and including today's "omics". AI in medicine, which is the focus of this review, has two main branches: virtual and physical. The virtual branch includes informatics approaches from deep learning information management to control of health management systems, including electronic health records, and active guidance of physicians in their treatment decisions. The physical branch is best represented by robots used to assist the elderly patient or the attending surgeon. Also embodied in this branch are targeted nanorobots, a unique new drug delivery system. The societal and ethical complexities of these applications require further reflection, proof of their medical utility, economic value, and development of interdisciplinary strategies for their wider application.

PMID: 31939856
Abstract: Artificial intelligence has been advancing in fields including anesthesiology. This scoping review of the intersection of artificial intelligence and anesthesia research identified and summarized six themes of applications of artificial intelligence in anesthesiology: (1) depth of anesthesia monitoring, (2) control of anesthesia, (3) event and risk prediction, (4) ultrasound guidance, (5) pain management, and (6) operating room logistics. Based on papers identified in the review, several topics within artificial intelligence were described and summarized: (1) machine learning (including supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning), (2) techniques in artificial intelligence (e.g., classical machine learning, neural networks and deep learning, Bayesian methods), and (3) major applied fields in artificial intelligence.The implications of artificial intelligence for the practicing anesthesiologist are discussed as are its limitations and the role of clinicians in further developing artificial intelligence for use in clinical care. Artificial intelligence has the potential to impact the practice of anesthesiology in aspects ranging from perioperative support to critical care delivery to outpatient pain management.

PMID: 33397265
Abstract: Artificial Intelligence revolutionizes the drug development process that can quickly identify potential biologically active compounds from millions of candidate within a short period. The present review is an overview based on some applications of Machine Learning based tools, such as GOLD, Deep PVP, LIB SVM, etc. and the algorithms involved such as support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), decision tree and Artificial Neural Network (ANN), etc. at various stages of drug designing and development. These techniques can be employed in SNP discoveries, drug repurposing, ligand-based drug design (LBDD), Ligand-based Virtual Screening (LBVS) and Structure- based Virtual Screening (SBVS), Lead identification, quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) modeling, and ADMET analysis. It is demonstrated that SVM exhibited better performance in indicating that the classification model will have great applications on human intestinal absorption (HIA) predictions. Successful cases have been reported which demonstrate the efficiency of SVM and RF models in identifying JFD00950 as a novel compound targeting against a colon cancer cell line, DLD-1, by inhibition of FEN1 cytotoxic and cleavage activity. Furthermore, a QSAR model was also used to predict flavonoid inhibitory effects on AR activity as a potent treatment for diabetes mellitus (DM), using ANN. Hence, in the era of big data, ML approaches have been evolved as a powerful and efficient way to deal with the huge amounts of generated data from modern drug discovery to model small-molecule drugs, gene biomarkers and identifying the novel drug targets for various diseases.

PMID: 32250084
Abstract: Traditional forensic identification relies on forensic experts to manually extract information and provide identification opinions based on medicine, biology and other fields of knowledge combined with personal work experience, which is not only time-consuming and require great effort, but also affected by subjective factors that are difficult to overcome. In the era of big data, the booming development of artificial intelligence brings new ideas to forensic medicine. In recent years, forensic researchers at home and abroad have conducted many studies based on artificial intelligence technology, such as face recognition, age and gender identification, DNA analysis, postmortem interval estimation, injury and cause of death identification, showing the feasibility and advantages of using artificial intelligence technology to solve forensic identification problems. As a new means of technology that has adapted to the development of the times, artificial intelligence has brought new vitality to forensic medicine, but at the same time also some new challenges. How to deal with these challenges scientifically and form a new mode of 'artificial intelligence plus forensic medicine' with artificial intelligence and forensic medicine developing collaboratively is a new direction for the development of forensic medicine in the era of big data.

PMID: 32167262
Abstract: Artificial intelligence is advancing rapidly and making its way into all areas of our lives. This review discusses developments and potential practices regarding the use of artificial intelligence in the field of ophthalmology, and the related topic of medical ethics. Various artificial intelligence applications related to the diagnosis of eye diseases were researched in books, journals, search engines, print and social media. Resources were cross-checked to verify the information. Artificial intelligence algorithms, some of which were approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, have been adopted in the field of ophthalmology, especially in diagnostic studies. Studies are being conducted that prove that artificial intelligence algorithms can be used in the field of ophthalmology, especially in diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, and retinopathy of prematurity. Some of these algorithms have come to the approval stage. The current point in artificial intelligence studies shows that this technology has advanced considerably and shows promise for future work. It is believed that artificial intelligence applications will be effective in identifying patients with preventable vision loss and directing them to physicians, especially in developing countries where there are fewer trained professionals and physicians are difficult to reach. When we consider the possibility that some future artificial intelligence systems may be candidates for moral/ethical status, certain ethical issues arise. Questions about moral/ethical status are important in some areas of applied ethics. Although it is accepted that current intelligence systems do not have moral/ethical status, it has yet to be determined what the exact the characteristics that confer moral/ethical status are or will be.

PMID: 33509373
Abstract: Artificial intelligence and machine learning based approaches are increasingly finding their way into various areas of nuclear medicine imaging. With the technical development of new methods and the expansion to new fields of application, this trend is likely to become even more pronounced in future. Possible means of application range from automated image reading and classification to correlation with clinical outcomes and to technological applications in image processing and reconstruction. In the context of tumor imaging, that is, predominantly FDG or PSMA PET imaging but also bone scintigraphy, artificial intelligence approaches can be used to quantify the whole-body tumor volume, for the segmentation and classification of pathological foci or to facilitate the diagnosis of micro-metastases. More advanced applications aim at the correlation of image features that are derived by artificial intelligence with clinical endpoints, for example, whole-body tumor volume with overall survival. In nuclear medicine imaging of benign diseases, artificial intelligence methods are predominantly used for automated and/or facilitated image classification and clinical decision making. Automated feature selection, segmentation and classification of myocardial perfusion scintigraphy can help in identifying patients that would benefit from intervention and to forecast clinical prognosis. Automated reporting of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease might be extended to early diagnosis-being of special interest, if targeted treatment options might become available. Technological approaches include artificial intelligence-based attenuation correction of PET images, image reconstruction or anatomical landmarking. Attenuation correction is of special interest for avoiding the need of a coregistered CT scan, in the process of image reconstruction artefacts might be reduced, or ultra low-dose PET images might be denoised. The development of accurate ultra low-dose PET imaging might broaden the method's applicability, for example, toward oncologic PET screening. Most artificial intelligence approaches in nuclear medicine imaging are still in early stages of development, further improvements are necessary for broad clinical applications. In this review, we describe the current trends in the context fields of body oncology, cardiac imaging, and neuroimaging while an additional section puts emphasis on technological trends. Our aim is not only to describe currently available methods, but also to place a special focus on the description of possible future developments.

PMID: 35164492
Abstract: The application of novel technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and telemedicine in anesthesiology could play a role in transforming the future of health care. In the present review we discuss the current applications of AI and telemedicine in anesthesiology and perioperative care, exploring their potential influence and the possible hurdles. AI technologies have the potential to deeply impact all phases of perioperative care from accurate risk prediction to operating room organization, leading to increased cost-effective care quality and better outcomes. Telemedicine is reported as a successful mean within the anesthetic pathway, including preoperative evaluation, remote patient monitoring, and postoperative care. The utilization of AI and telemedicine is promising encouraging results in perioperative management, nevertheless several hurdles remain to be overcome before these tools could be integrated in our daily practice. AI models and telemedicine can significantly influence all phases of perioperative care, helping physicians in the development of precision medicine.
