WRITE_SUMMARY
User query: AI applications in medicine

Optimized query: Artificial Intelligence Medicine

PMID: 33811123
Context Chunks:
Artificial Intelligence in Cancer Research and Precision Medicine Bhavneet Bhinder1,2, Coryandar Gilvary3, Neel S. Madhukar3, Olivier Elemento1,2,3,* 1Caryl and Israel Englander Institute for Precision Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA 2Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10065, USA Author Manuscript 3OneThreeBiotech, 335 Madison Avenue, New York, NY, 10173, USA Abstract Artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly reshaping cancer research and personalized clinical care. Availability of high dimensionality datasets coupled with advances in high performance computing as well as innovative deep learning architectures, has led to an explosion of AI use in various aspects of oncology research. These applications range from detection and classification of cancer, to molecular characterization of tumors and its microenvironment, to drug discovery and repurposing, to predicting treatment outcomes for patients. As these advances start penetrating the clinic, we foresee a shifting paradigm in cancer care becoming strongly driven by AI. Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Author Manuscript The term artificial intelligence (AI) was first coined for the Dartmouth Summer Workshop in 1956 where it was broadly referred to as “thinking machines.” In simple terms, AI can be defined as the ability of a machine to learn and recognize patterns and relationships from enough representative examples and to use this information effectively for decision making on unseen data. AI is a vast term that encompasses (and is sometime used synonymously with) machine learning and deep learning.
Author Manuscript INTRODUCTION Author Manuscript The term artificial intelligence (AI) was first coined for the Dartmouth Summer Workshop in 1956 where it was broadly referred to as “thinking machines.” In simple terms, AI can be defined as the ability of a machine to learn and recognize patterns and relationships from enough representative examples and to use this information effectively for decision making on unseen data. AI is a vast term that encompasses (and is sometime used synonymously with) machine learning and deep learning. In broad terms, machine learning is a subfield of AI, and deep learning is the subset of machine learning that focuses on deep artificial neural networks (that is, artificial neural networks with multiple fully connected hidden layers) . In recent years, deep learning has gained enormous traction due to its unprecedented success in computer vision tasks such as face recognition and image classification, among others [1]. This property of deep learning extended its applicability to various aspects of cancer research and medicine, such as automatically and accurately detecting cancer from images of stained tumor slides or radiology images thereby holding the potential to unburden pathologists and radiologists from routine and repetitive tasks. * Corresponding author: Olivier Elemento, Weill Cornell Medicine, Box 140, 1305 York Avenue, New York, NY, 10065, USA, ole2001@med.cornell.edu, Phone:  962-5726.
HHS Public Access Author manuscript Author Manuscript Cancer Discov. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2021 October 01. Published in final edited form as: Cancer Discov. 2021 April ; 11: 900–915. Artificial Intelligence in Cancer Research and Precision Medicine Bhavneet Bhinder1,2, Coryandar Gilvary3, Neel S. Madhukar3, Olivier Elemento1,2,3,* 1Caryl and Israel Englander Institute for Precision Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10021, USA 2Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY 10065, USA Author Manuscript 3OneThreeBiotech, 335 Madison Avenue, New York, NY, 10173, USA Abstract Artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly reshaping cancer research and personalized clinical care. Availability of high dimensionality datasets coupled with advances in high performance computing as well as innovative deep learning architectures, has led to an explosion of AI use in various aspects of oncology research.
Estimation of uncertainty in data-driven prediction models is an area of active research and in the future will provide a systematic framework for improving models and increasing confidence in AIassisted clinical decision making. Deep learning currently has the reputation of being a “black box” but is in essence capturing complex correlations within data. Hence additional research to increase model interpretability by understanding how deep learning models learn from a given data, and what cellular and molecular mechanistic insights such models can provide, will also make the clinical use of AI models more agreeable to clinicians. Author Manuscript Thinking prospectively, prevention rather than treatment may end up being the most compelling application of AI to cancer care. Seminal research has already led the community to compile a portfolio of risk factors for cancer. Advances in technology has enabled various means of collecting data at an individual patient level.
To address this, Kuenzi et al. developed DrugCell, an interpretable deep learning model that uses a “visible neural network” (VNN) to ensure that the underlying neural network hierarchy resembled known biological processes [119]. They combined this VNN with an artificial neural network built to model a drug’s chemical structure and found that this combination could correctly predict drug response  while also providing insight into the underlying mechanisms of action driving response. They also showed how this approach could be used to predict synergistic drug combinations and validated their predictions in patient-derived xenograft models with an AUC of 0.75. Author Manuscript Following on DrugCell, some approaches have sought to combine genomic data with other features to predict single drug or combination efficacy. showed that by combining chemical information with biological information (genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics) on specific cell lines they were able to predict efficacy for 17,000+ compounds across the 59 cell lines in the NCI60 data set [116].
Cosine Similarity Scores: [0.5330871343612671, 0.518152117729187, 0.43397319316864014, 0.37738215923309326, 0.34961605072021484]

PMID: 31939856
Context Chunks:
Thus, artificial intelligence can look back to visionaries across those fields, such as Charles Babbage, Alan Turing, Claude Shannon, Richard Bellman, and Marvin Minsky, who helped to provide the foundation for many of the modern elements of artificial intelligence.2 Furthermore, major advances in computer science, such as hardware-based improvements in processing and storage, have enabled the base technologies required for the advent of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence has been applied to various aspects of medicine, ranging from largely diagnostic applications in radiology3 and pathology4 to more therapeutic and interventional applications in cardiology5 and surgery.6 In April 2018, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the first software system that uses artificial intelligence—a program that assists in the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy through the analysis of images of the fundus.7 As the development and application of artificial intelligence technologies in medicine continues to grow, it is important for clinicians in every field to understand what these technologies are and how they can be leveraged to deliver safer, more efficient, more cost-effective care. Author Manuscript Anesthesiology as a field is well positioned to potentially benefit from advances in artificial intelligence as it touches on multiple elements of clinical care, including perioperative and intensive care, pain management, and drug delivery and discovery. We conducted a scoping review of the literature at the intersection of artificial intelligence and anesthesia with the goal of identifying techniques from the field of artificial intelligence that are being used in anesthesia research and their applications to the clinical practice of anesthesiology. Materials and Methods Author Manuscript The Medline, Embase, Web of Science, and IEEE Xplore databases were searched using combinations of the following keywords: machine learning, artificial intelligence, neural networks, anesthesiology, and anesthesia. To be included, papers had to be focused on the design or application of artificial intelligence–based algorithms in the practice of anesthesia, including preoperative, intraoperative, postoperative, and surgical critical care as well as pain management.
In pathology, artificial intelligence has been demonstrated to augment the ability of clinicians in making diagnoses, such as in the reduction of error rate in recognizing cancer-positive lymph nodes.32 This reduction error occurred not because the artificial intelligence outperformed humans—on the contrary it was worse—but because it could narrow the area of a histopathologic slide that a human pathologist had to review, allowing more attention to be placed on a smaller area. Similarly, we anticipate that artificial intelligence technology that can contribute to monitoring depth of anesthesia, maintaining drug infusions, or predicting hypotension in an operation will allow practicing anesthesiologists to be more effective and efficient in the care they provide. Author Manuscript Medicine and the practice of anesthesiology is still, at its core, a uniquely human endeavor as both science and art. Although algorithms may one day exceed human capabilities in integrating complex, gigantic, structured datasets, much of the data that clinicians gather from patients comes from the clinician–patient relationship that is established when patients bestow trust on their doctor. Although anesthesiologists can develop the knowledge and training to trust artificial intelligence models, it remains to be seen to what extent patients will be willing to trust algorithms and how patients wish to have results from algorithms communicated to them. Therefore, qualitative research will be needed to better understand the ethical, cultural, and societal implications of integrating artificial intelligence into clinical workflows.
From these applications, a summary of the most commonly encountered artificial intelligence sub-fields (e.g., machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing) and methods (classical machine learning, neural networks, fuzzy logic) was presented. Most applications of artificial intelligence for anesthesiology are still in research and development; thus, the current focus of artificial intelligence within anesthesiology is not on replacing clinician judgment or skills but on investigating ways to augmenting them. Some of the reviewed studies demonstrated improvements over existing methods and technologies in measuring clinical endpoints such as depth of anesthesia, whereas others showed no difference or even worse performance of artificial intelligence compared with currently available and widely used techniques. This dichotomy in the performance of artificial intelligence is not surprising. Although artificial intelligence as a field has been in Anesthesiology. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 November 05.
Links to the digital files are provided in the HTML text of this article on the Journal’s Web site (www.anesthesiology.org). Page 2 Author Manuscript The implications of artificial intelligence for the practicing anesthesiologist are discussed as are its limitations and the role of clinicians in further developing artificial intelligence for use in clinical care. Artificial intelligence has the potential to impact the practice of anesthesiology in aspects ranging from perioperative support to critical care delivery to outpatient pain management. Author Manuscript Artificial intelligence has been defined as the study of algorithms that give machines the ability to reason and perform functions such as problem-solving, object and word recognition, inference of world states, and decision-making.1 Although artificial intelligence is often thought of as relating exclusively to computers or robots, its roots are found across multiple fields, including philosophy, psychology, linguistics, and statistics. Thus, artificial intelligence can look back to visionaries across those fields, such as Charles Babbage, Alan Turing, Claude Shannon, Richard Bellman, and Marvin Minsky, who helped to provide the foundation for many of the modern elements of artificial intelligence.2 Furthermore, major advances in computer science, such as hardware-based improvements in processing and storage, have enabled the base technologies required for the advent of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence has been applied to various aspects of medicine, ranging from largely diagnostic applications in radiology3 and pathology4 to more therapeutic and interventional applications in cardiology5 and surgery.6 In April 2018, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the first software system that uses artificial intelligence—a program that assists in the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy through the analysis of images of the fundus.7 As the development and application of artificial intelligence technologies in medicine continues to grow, it is important for clinicians in every field to understand what these technologies are and how they can be leveraged to deliver safer, more efficient, more cost-effective care.
Anesthesiology as a field has been a leader in the implementation and achievement of patient safety initiatives, and artificial intelligence can serve as a new tool to continue innovations in the delivery of safe anesthesia care. Conclusion Author Manuscript The field of anesthesiology has a long history of engaging in research that incorporates aspects of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence has the potential to impact the clinical practice of anesthesia in aspects ranging from perioperative support to critical care delivery to outpatient pain management. As research efforts advance and technology development intensifies, it will be crucial for practicing clinicians to provide practice-based insights to assist in the clinical translation of artificial intelligence. Supplementary Material Refer to Web version on PubMed Central for supplementary material. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2020 November 05.
Cosine Similarity Scores: [0.5743934512138367, 0.5498575568199158, 0.5482266545295715, 0.5330663919448853, 0.5216701030731201]

PMID: 32250084
Abstract:
Traditional forensic identification relies on forensic experts to manually extract information and provide identification opinions based on medicine, biology and other fields of knowledge combined with personal work experience, which is not only time-consuming and require great effort, but also affected by subjective factors that are difficult to overcome. In the era of big data, the booming development of artificial intelligence brings new ideas to forensic medicine. In recent years, forensic researchers at home and abroad have conducted many studies based on artificial intelligence technology, such as face recognition, age and gender identification, DNA analysis, postmortem interval estimation, injury and cause of death identification, showing the feasibility and advantages of using artificial intelligence technology to solve forensic identification problems. As a new means of technology that has adapted to the development of the times, artificial intelligence has brought new vitality to forensic medicine, but at the same time also some new challenges. How to deal with these challenges scientifically and form a new mode of 'artificial intelligence plus forensic medicine' with artificial intelligence and forensic medicine developing collaboratively is a new direction for the development of forensic medicine in the era of big data.

PMID: 33509373
Abstract:
Artificial intelligence and machine learning based approaches are increasingly finding their way into various areas of nuclear medicine imaging. With the technical development of new methods and the expansion to new fields of application, this trend is likely to become even more pronounced in future. Possible means of application range from automated image reading and classification to correlation with clinical outcomes and to technological applications in image processing and reconstruction. In the context of tumor imaging, that is, predominantly FDG or PSMA PET imaging but also bone scintigraphy, artificial intelligence approaches can be used to quantify the whole-body tumor volume, for the segmentation and classification of pathological foci or to facilitate the diagnosis of micro-metastases. More advanced applications aim at the correlation of image features that are derived by artificial intelligence with clinical endpoints, for example, whole-body tumor volume with overall survival. In nuclear medicine imaging of benign diseases, artificial intelligence methods are predominantly used for automated and/or facilitated image classification and clinical decision making. Automated feature selection, segmentation and classification of myocardial perfusion scintigraphy can help in identifying patients that would benefit from intervention and to forecast clinical prognosis. Automated reporting of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease might be extended to early diagnosis-being of special interest, if targeted treatment options might become available. Technological approaches include artificial intelligence-based attenuation correction of PET images, image reconstruction or anatomical landmarking. Attenuation correction is of special interest for avoiding the need of a coregistered CT scan, in the process of image reconstruction artefacts might be reduced, or ultra low-dose PET images might be denoised. The development of accurate ultra low-dose PET imaging might broaden the method's applicability, for example, toward oncologic PET screening. Most artificial intelligence approaches in nuclear medicine imaging are still in early stages of development, further improvements are necessary for broad clinical applications. In this review, we describe the current trends in the context fields of body oncology, cardiac imaging, and neuroimaging while an additional section puts emphasis on technological trends. Our aim is not only to describe currently available methods, but also to place a special focus on the description of possible future developments.
